README.md, before:

# 💽 S4 Backendportfolio 💽

This is a personal project I did for Semester 4 on Graduate school Fontys Tilburg.
This is the first time we were required to add CI/CD to our projects. Before this semester we used Jenkins
once. We were only shown an interface and didn't know how to set it up.

We weren't required to use Jenkins. We could have used any other software like github actions. 
In this semester we didn't do much research, because it was already hard to set up a Jenkins configuration.  

## ⚙ Server configuration ⚙

For this project and for this semester I did a lot a configuration on a dedicated server I rented from [Hetzner](https://www.hetzner.com/).
I configured the following:
 * [Nginx reverse proxy](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-configure-nginx-as-a-web-server-and-reverse-proxy-for-apache-on-one-ubuntu-18-04-server)
 * [Sonarqube service for code analysis](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-ensure-code-quality-with-sonarqube-on-ubuntu-18-04)
 * [Tomcat server for deploying](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/install-tomcat-9-ubuntu-1804)
 
All the information i mostly found on DigitalOcean. They have wonderful tutorials for explaining what everything does when you enter commands.
The server I was working on was linux based. I had some experience working with linux but not a lot at this moment, so I learned a lot of new commands from doing these tutorials.

### 🐋 Dockerfile & configuration

The code doesn't work at the moment because the codebase is connected to a database that doesn't exist anymore.
That is why I created a dockerfile for a database. You can use this file and spin up a mysql server to connect to.
The only thing you need to edit is the following properties inside application.properties:

* spring.datasource.url
* spring.datasource.username
* spring.datasource.password

## 🚧 The project 🚧

The project structure is a simple MVC (model, view, controller) setup. Although the view isn't here because I build a separate front-end for this with [Angular 8](https://github.com/teundeclercq/PortfolioFrontend).
The front-end was the most focus of this semester. We chose Angular because at first glance this was what most big companies used and because it had a lot of good documentation. 
Also, angular forced you to use a specific structure when creating components, and I liked this kind of strict force, because then you're coding wouldn't get messy.
This was my thought process at the time.

### 🍃 Spring boot 

For this project I used the framework spring boot. 
The reason I chose for spring boot because it was easy to configure and not that hard to understand.

### 🧪 Tests

For tests, I did Integration tests and Unit tests. The integration tests can be found in the [repository section](src/test/java/nl/teundeclercq/portofolio/repository).
The rest of the tests are Unit tests.

Commit message:

Add code to run database.

README.md, after:

# 💽 S4 Backendportfolio 💽

This is a personal project I did for Semester 4 on Graduate school Fontys Tilburg.
This is the first time we were required to add CI/CD to our projects. Before this semester we used Jenkins
once. We were only shown an interface and didn't know how to set it up.

We weren't required to use Jenkins. We could have used any other software like github actions. 
In this semester we didn't do much research, because it was already hard to set up a Jenkins configuration.  

## ⚙ Server configuration ⚙

For this project and for this semester I did a lot a configuration on a dedicated server I rented from [Hetzner](https://www.hetzner.com/).
I configured the following:
 * [Nginx reverse proxy](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-configure-nginx-as-a-web-server-and-reverse-proxy-for-apache-on-one-ubuntu-18-04-server)
 * [Sonarqube service for code analysis](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-ensure-code-quality-with-sonarqube-on-ubuntu-18-04)
 * [Tomcat server for deploying](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/install-tomcat-9-ubuntu-1804)
 
All the information I mostly found on DigitalOcean. They have wonderful tutorials for explaining what everything does when you enter commands.
The server I was working on was linux based. I had some experience working with linux but not a lot at this moment, so I learned a lot of new commands from doing these tutorials.

### 🐋 Database configuration

The code doesn't work at the moment because the codebase is connected to a database that doesn't exist anymore.
That is why I created a dockerfile for a database. You can use this file and spin up a mysql server to connect to.
The only thing you need to edit is the following properties inside application.properties:

* spring.datasource.url
* spring.datasource.username
* spring.datasource.password

To run the configuration for the database you need to run the following command:
```
docker stack deploy -c postgres.yaml postgres
```

## 🚧 The project 🚧

The project structure is a simple MVC (model, view, controller) setup. Although the view isn't here because I build a separate front-end for this with [Angular 8](https://github.com/teundeclercq/PortfolioFrontend).
The front-end was the most focus of this semester. We chose Angular because at first glance this was what most big companies used and because it had a lot of good documentation. 
Also, angular forced you to use a specific structure when creating components, and I liked this kind of strict force, because then you're coding wouldn't get messy.
This was my thought process at the time.

### 🍃 Spring boot 

For this project I used the framework spring boot. 
The reason I chose for spring boot because it was easy to configure and not that hard to understand.

### 🧪 Tests

For tests, I did Integration tests and Unit tests. The integration tests can be found in the [repository section](src/test/java/nl/teundeclercq/portofolio/repository).
The rest of the tests are Unit tests.
